## Getting 3D from 2D for Australian Vegetation
This is a personal blog about my experiences with modelling vegetation using drone acquired imagery. While there are many publications on northern hemisphere forests Australian native forests contain features that don't adhere to the basic requirements of photogrammetry.
## The problem of reproducing results
Structure from Motion (SfM) and dense matching algorithms are complex, often proprietary and involve many computational assumptions that are made sequentially through the processing workflow. It is difficult therefore to compare like for like outputs unless very detailed workflows and parameters are provided. The first steps of drone based photogrammetry seek to match unique features created by an image segmentation algorithm based on colour, texture and other imagery attributes. It should therefore be expected that environmental conditions that alter illumination such as cloud and/or solar elevation/azimuth will result in registration and matching of different features. Further, different software use different algorithms to create unique features. While broadscale agriculture has seen a number of dedicated systems for routine processing of crop focused imagery sets, more complex targets such forest canopies will introduce variable occlusion of features particularly ground and tree structural components. Where canopies are sparse or visually porous the resulting products will likely contain features spread between ground and top of canopy. 
Breaking Bad: SfM is possible based on the assumption that the objects in the image adhere to basic photogrammetric principles. In the case of Australian native vegetation movement in wind is almost inevitable due to canopy structure and typically penduluous leaf orientation. 
## Common imagery sets
One approach to addressing the problem of reproducibility is to provide open access to raw image sets to allow testing and comparison of products across platforms. Frey et al. (2019) analysed RGB imagery collected with a consumer camera across 10 sites with a matrix of processing settings. This very useful paper showed that wind effect on completeness of 3D point clouds in coniferous forests were relatively minor compared to overlap percentages. 
